_zenodo badge to go here_

# khan-etal_2021_JounralTBD

**Comparing the evolution of human vs earth system drivers on water, energy and land resources across the United States**

Zarrar Khan<sup>1\*</sup>, Paul Wolfram<sup>1</sup>, Gokul Iyer<sup>1</sup>, Jennie Rice<sup>2</sup>, Chris Vernon<sup>2</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Joint Global Change Research Institute (JGCRI), Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), 5825 University Research Ct, College Park, MD 20740

<sup>2 </sup> Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), 902 Battelle Blvd, Richland, WA 99354

\* corresponding author:  zarrar.khan@pnnl.gov

## Abstract
This paper explores the evolution of human and earth system drivers on water, energy and land resources across the United States. Human drivers are respresented by three different shared-socioeconomic pathways (SSPs) which capture different trends in population, GDP and technology advancements. Earth system drivers are represented by climate impacts from four different Global Climate Model scenarios (GCMs) which capture changing trends in temperature and rainfall and the corresponding implications on water availability, heating and colling demands as well as changes in agricultural yields. The SSPs considered include SSP2, SSP3 and SSP5 while the GCMs considered include moderate and severe versions of RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5. Results show XXXX. 

## Journal reference
CITATION to be added.

## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
Reference for each minted data source for your input data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My input dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| model 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| model 2 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| component 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |

## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.

1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiement from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiement from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |
